MAJOR CHANGES IN JEDIT 2.2 SINCE 2.1

The following is an overview of changes in jEdit 2.2 since 2.1. A complete
list can be found in the file doc/CHANGES.txt.

* Directory Search

jEdit can now search inside all files in a directory. It can even
recurse into subdirectories. The original implementation of this was
written by Andreas Schaefer <andreas.schaefer@ubs.com>, but I rewrote it
from scratch because the original had a few problems.

* Updated 'Expand Abbreviation' command

The 'Expand Abbreviation' command now cycles through all available
matches, instead of only locating the first one. The code to do this was
contributed by Valery Kondakoff <strauss@orc.ru>.

* New 'Close All' dialog box

Previously, exiting jEdit or closing all buffers would ask if each
unsaved buffer should be saved, one-by-one. Now, all unsaved buffers are
listed in one dialog box.

* More intelligent auto indent

Pressing '}' in an edit mode that supports bracket indentation (C, C++,
IDL, Java, JavaScript) now immediately re-indents the line accordingly.

* Improved undo

Invoking 'Undo' or 'Redo' now moves the caret to the location of the
change. Previously, there was no way to know exactly what was undone.

* Session loading and saving

All jEdit versions since 1.3 could save the list of open files on exit,
and restore those files the next time it was started. jEdit 2.2 takes
this one step further, allowing you to create multiple such 'sessions',
and load and save them while the editor is running.

* Macro recorder updates

Previously, only key strokes were recorded in macros. Now, menu item
selections, tool bar clicks, and even search and replace operations are
recorded.

* Extensible text area

jEdit's text area component now allows custom 'highlighters' to be
added. A highlighter is a piece of code that is called each time a line
is painted. The ErrorList plugin, for example, uses a highlighter to
paint errors in the text as wavy red underlines.

* EditBus message passing integrated

The EditBus system allows plugins to communicate and exchange data with
one another by sending typed messages. Previously, the EditBus classes
were distributed as a separate plugin. Now, most of EditBus has been
moved into the core. The EditBus plugin still remains, however; it
contains a few message types that are only used by plugins.

The event system has been removed, because EditBus messages can be used
to accomplish the same thing. Plugins that depend on the event system
will no longer work with jEdit 2.2. Fortunately, most plugins that used
the event system have been updated for EditBus already; check out jEdit
Plugin Central <http://www.icg-online.de/jedit>.

* Activity log

jEdit now saves all thrown exceptions, as well as various informational
messages, to an 'activity log'. The activity log can be viewed with
the 'Help->Show Activity Log' command. It can also be saved to a file
with 'Help->Save Activity Log'.

* File encoding can be set

While this is not a very major feature, it is probably one of the most
frequently requested ones. The file encoding used for reading and
writing files can now be changed, so you can edit files written in
non-Latin1 (human) languages.
